---
title: Interest
date: 2019-09-16
draft: false
navSection: home
---

{{< signupbutton >}}

Triumph is a larp inspired by *The Hunger Games*. 65 players will be arriving
in The Eternal City. 24 will be Triumphs, to train and be shown off to the
Imperium. 12 will be their mentors, tasked with guiding them through the
politics of the capital. The remainder will be Citizens of the capital,
stylists and media representatives and operators with their own plans and
agendas.

The larp will be played over three days, from Nov 18th to Nov 21st, 2021. The
first day will be the arrival of the Triumphs at the capital. The second will
be training and politicking. The final day will be the games themselvesâ€”the
Triumphs will be taken to an arena where they will fight to the death, with
everyone else watching and attempting to influence the outcome.

At this point, sign ups are closed. If you'd like to be added to the waitlist
in case tickets become available, [fill out the
form](https://forms.gle/Z2ckuPRVDH1tQJ8G6) and we'll contact you if we have a
spot.

On this site you can find
information about [the characters](/play/characters) and [the
setting](/setting/world), take a look at [the location](/practical/location),
and find information about [how the sign up process will
work](/practical/signup). If you're interested, please [fill out the form
here](https://forms.gle/GiabWeVQcU5wJjqq9)  to opt in to our mailing list, and
you can also [find us on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/triumphlarp). If
you have any questions, feel free to ask them there or email us at
[info@triumphlarp.org](mailto:info@triumphlarp.org).
