---
title: Costume Inspiration
date: 2020-06-11
draft: false
navSection: practical
weight: 6
---

We wanted to provide some guidelines and inspiration for costuming for
*Triumph*, for those who might be having some difficulty coming up with ideas.

<!--more-->

First, these are designed to inspire you, to give you ideas and something to
work towards. We've tried to make a point of having some simpler, more
practical options for all characters, whether Citizens, Mentors, or Triumphs,
along with some more outlandish possibilites. We're not expecting anyone to
try and recreate these looks, but we're hoping everyone can look at these and
find something — some eyeliner, or a scarf, or a pair of boots — that you can
use in your own costuming. And if nothing does, please ignore everything here;
you don't need any of it.

Second, don't feel bound or overwhelmed by these options. If you're
uncomfortable dressing formally or don't feel like you have the skills to
throw together something fancy, don't worry about it. Some of those from
poorer Cantons make a point of dressing up as a way to stick it to those who
would look down on them, while some of those from richer Cantons dress down to
make competitors underestimate them. Some honor their native Cantons in their
choice of costume, while others rebel against it. In other words, as a player
you can justify a lot of different choices for your character. There's a *lot*
of variety in the Imperium. You will fit in.

Finally, for inspiration, we've provided a few sets of pictures. Two of them
cover some basic looks for each of the different Cantons. One covers some
basic gamewear. And the remaining two cover typical fashions for the Eternal
City. Mentors borrow from their Cantons and from the Capital depending on what
they're trying to emphasize (or forget).

{{< gallery "practical/costumes" >}}

As a practical matter, you can break *Triumph* down into the three days:
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

Thursday will be the arrival and the big dinner. Triumphs often use this to
wear something showy to try and attract the attention of patrons, although in
recent years some have chosen simply to wear something more relaxed, or even
just show up in their gear for the Games, to show their contempt for the whole
thing. Citizens and Mentors have many of the same concerns, and may dress
flamboyantly or not depending on whether they think it would read as powerful
or desperate.

Friday will be a general day for circulating. Most people wear something
reasonably comfortable — it's a long day — and flashy or not depending on
their political goals. Some of the more outgoing Citizens might change for
dinner to something a little more formal. Triumphs have interviews, and may or
may not wear their gear or something more provocative.

Saturday, of course, is the Games. Triumphs will need their gear; everyone
else will likely follow similar considerations as they did for Friday.

It's not uncommon for Citizens or Mentors to wear the same thing all three
days, depending on what their stylists have advised. Clotheshorses will want
more options, of course. And while some Triumphs will proudly wear their game
gear all three days, most will have at least one more casual set of clothes,
if not something additional for dinner or interviews.

