---
title: Character Types
date: 2019-09-15
draft: false
navSection: play
weight: 2
---

Characters are the focal points of any larp experience. Each and every
character brief will contain a background detailing the character’s past
experience and how they came to be the person they are at the start of the
action. As organizers, our hope is that the characters will change and grow
over the three days they are part of *Triumph*.

Your experience (and character brief) will depend upon whether you play a
Triumph, a Mentor, or a Citizen. We will strive to give you your choice of
character type wherever possible though, as there are limited numbers of each
type, we cannot guarantee this.

## Triumphs

Triumphs occupy a paradoxical position in the world of the Imperium. They are
celebrated and glorified in the media, fêted, and pampered in the opulence of
the Eternal City and fawned over by the residents there, only to be sacrificed
afterwards. While they are the center of attention, the smarter among them
will recognize this as a facade. They remain largely powerless to do anything
except try to cheat death through winning the Games.

In our larp, the first couple days will encapsulate the experience of arriving
in the Eternal City. There will be media interviews, a formal dinner, strategy
sessions with their Mentors, and the opportunity to size up the opposition.
This is critical to success in the Games, where securing a sponsor or bribing
an unprincipled Gamekeeper can provide a weapon at a crucial moment.

On the final day, the players of the Triumphs will travel to the arena where
the Triumphal Games will take place. From here the experience will be a series
of scenes — the battles and deaths of the Games — within the arena. Over
roughly eight hours, we will run about one scene an hour. These scenes
represent the explorations, ambushes, and showdowns of the Triumphal games and
culminate in the crowning of the final survivor as the winner. All battles
will be on camera and broadcast back to the hotel, where the Mentors and the
Citizens will have an opportunity to react and try to influence events by
cutting deals with other Mentors or pulling strings with the Gamekeepers to
improve the odds for their Triumphs. Between the battles, Triumphs will be
communicating with their Mentors, playing out scenes with their allies in the
arena and possibly sneaking off to meet with other competitors out of sight of
the Imperium’s cameras.

We've had a lot of questions what happens to a player when their Triumph
character dies. The final day starts 22 hours after the larp begins so there
won't be much time remaining, no matter when you die in the Games. You could
choose to just return to the hotel and relax in the afterparty space, or your
room both of which will have screens on which you can watch the rest of the
Games. Or you could take advantage of the spa, out-of-character. If you aren't
ready to derole quite yet, we will be facilitating scenes where you can haunt
some of those who failed you during your life—your Mentor, or allies, or those
who killed you—and try and find some closure to your story. Finally, if you
really want to go back, we will have some characters you could use to reenter
the larp, as a Citizen of the Eternal City.

As is traditional, after the final battle, the surviving Triumph will return
to the Eternal City to give their victory speech. This concludes the larp.

## Mentors

Mentors are the bridge between the Triumphs and the Citizens. In the world of
the Imperium, they were not an original part of the Triumphal Games — the
Triumphs received no assistance to prepare for their battles or to navigate
the politics of the Eternal City. Residents from the Cantons living in the
capital naturally started offering help to those selected from their province,
and those who had already been through the Games had the most to offer. The
formalization of this relationship took place on the 10th anniversary, but it
was not until the 21st Games that every Canton had a victor in a position to
serve as Mentor.

For the past 18 Triumphal games, every pair of Triumphs has had a Mentor. Some
Cantons only currently have one Victor who can serve in this capacity, others,
have more to choose from. Jupiter’s Canton with its academy and Mars' Canton
with its strong military tradition have most with seven apiece. Canons with
more than one candidate vary in how they appoint their Mentor. Sometimes there
is fierce competition, sometimes they rotate, sometimes the first Victor has
proven reluctant to give up their position.

Most of the Mentors, as a result of their victory, are wealthy; the rewards
from winning coupled with sponsorships and endorsement deals means they can
retire comfortably. And while some genuinely enjoy their wealth and fame, most
tend to avoid the spotlight, particularly after a few years have passed. Some
of them fine the memory of what they went through to survive an almost
intolerable burden, and the steady progression of Triumphs who die under their
watch, year after year, eventually wears down the rest.

Despite this, all the Mentors do their best to give their Triumphs the best
chance of success. Some for personal glory, some for the honor of their
Canton, but the majority because they genuinely want their Triumphs to
survive. None are under any illusions as to the odds of that happening. For
the larp, there are three important roles the Mentors play. First, they will
be responsible for preparing their Triumphs: Meeting them when they arrive,
schooling them on the etiquette of the Eternal City, helping them understand
the demands of the Games and the ways to improve their chances. Most Mentors
have chosen to settle in the Eternal City rather than return to their Cantons
— it is difficult to face the families of those you have failed, day after day
— and their understanding of the way the Games work in a practical way, as
opposed to the way the media presents it, is crucial.

Once the Games start, the Mentors act as liaison between the Triumphs and the
Gamekeepers. They will need to stay in contact with their Triumphs, keeping
their mentees updated on the goings on at the capital and keeping Control
informed as to what their team is doing in the arena. Finally, both before and
after the start of the Games, they will be acting as advocates on behalf of
their Triumphs. They will have connections to other Mentors and Citizens of
the Eternal City. They may know a Gamekeeper who is open to bribery or a
bookie vulnerable to blackmail who always has a little inside information.
Some are experts at it, some are still uncomfortable and learning the ropes,
but they’ve all danced this dance before. Now it’s time for another round.

## Citizens

In *Triumph*, of the three different types of characters, the Citizens are the
most varied. Some are here willingly. Some are forced to attend by politics or
circumstance. Some are unbelievably wealthy, born to riches. Others earned
their way to the Eternal City, still well-off by the standards of most of the
Cantons, but not able to compete with the true elites. Some have a job to do,
some have deep investments in the Games, and some are trying to accomplish
their own goals using the Triumphs and their Mentors as pawns.

For purposes of the larp, you can roughly divide Citizens into “high” and
“low” groups. The “high” Citizens are those that were born into power, the
long-term residents of the Eternal City. They’re the ones most comfortable
wielding their wealth and status, the prime beneficiaries of the status quo.
In contrast, the “low” Citizens are more recent arrivals, often serving at the
behest of those born in the Eternal City, usually with friends and family
still living in the Cantons. Their loyalties are divided between those who
provide them with wealth and access and those they left behind. It’s hard to
describe a standard play experience for Citizens, since they’re so varied. But
here’s a few examples of the kinds of characters who will be available:

### Triumvirate

The Triumvirate are the absolute rulers of the Imperium. Theoretically they
are freely elected by the Senate, who in turn are elected by the residents of
the Cantons. In practice, between hereditary seats controlled by families in
the Eternal City, voting restrictions still in place since the war, and
backroom political deals, the Senate wields little actual power. Those who
serve on the Triumvirate are largely only beholden to each other and the
cabals that got them elected.

Those playing members of the Triumvirate will find themselves in a position of
control, toying with those beneath them. At the same time, each one chafes at
the restraints placed upon them by the other two, and (perhaps with an eye
toward Ancient Rome) looks for a path to declare themselves Emperor. But
operating too openly might find one deposed by the Senate, and given the
pleasures of the Eternal City, perhaps it is best not to overreach.

### Gamekeepers

This small group of citizens is responsible for designing and running the
Triumphal Games. This includes setting the rules and designing the arena, as
well as determining the timing of events and adjusting the difficulty of
survival to ensure an exciting spectacle. Accusations fly every year over
whether they play favorites, but in the aftermath of a scandal the former head
of the Gamekeepers has resigned and there have been promises of a crackdown to
ensure the integrity of the Games.

In play, the Gamekeepers are likely to find themselves the focus of a lot of
attention, since they — quite directly, in some cases — hold the lives of the
Triumphs in their hands. Some are incorruptible, and the recent scandal has
hampered most of the open corruption of the past. But there are still
opportunities to slip a favorite weapon into a supply drop, or whisper a
warning into the right ear, assuming the price is high enough.

### Media

The first few Games were somewhat somber affairs, but they swiftly turned into
spectacle, and none are more responsible for that than the media. Ambitious
television personalities realized the games were a great opportunity, and soon
the broadcasts were laced with tear-jerking stories about the Triumphs, their
deprived upbringings, the sublime tragedy of their deaths, and the miraculous
glory of those who survive.

Players of these characters will be responsible for interviewing the Triumphs
before the Games start, and the Mentors as the Games begin, and the losses
begin to pile up. Their position and access gives them prime opportunity to
spread gossip — or misinformation — in pursuit of their own agendas. Apart
from the games, many rising stars are present among the citizens and these
will seek out media attention for their own purposes.

### Sponsors

With the prime viewing numbers the Triumphal Games command, there are
unparalleled advertising opportunities for business in the Games. That’s where
the sponsors come in. There are key drops of supplies — food, medication,
weapons — scheduled during the Games, each one underwritten by a particular
corporation. For a Triumph, gaining the official recognition of a corporation
means having that prize to yourself.

Playing a sponsor in the Games means meeting with the Triumphs and trying to
decide who is likely to represent your interests best on the field. More than
one sponsor has been known to agree to a deal at the start and then renege
after a desperate Mentor put forward a sweeter counteroffer.

### Socialites

The socialites attend the games because they can, because it’s a time and a
place to see and be seen, because it’s the year’s biggest and best party.

Playing a socialite in the Games might you free of any "task" or obvious
agenda (though some have secret agendas and are attending under cover). These
citizens can talk to anyone, offer to act as independent sponsors (most have
plenty of money to throw about) and pursue romance, fame, fortune, or the
chance to undermine the oppressive regime. Needless to say, every socialite
has both an "excuse" and an ulterior motive for their attendance. They might,
on the surface, be there to find a rich life partner, to support a lover or
simply to have a good time. Beneath the surface they could be an industrial
spy, trying to find out what other corporations are developing, they could be
rich supporters of the rebels" cause, they could be bodyguards of a paranoid
Triumvirate, or they could have been placed by a Mentor to undermine a
specific Triumph’s chances of victory at the Games.
