---
title: The World
date: 2019-09-15
draft: false
navSection: setting
weight: 1
version: '1.0'
---

*Welcome to The Imperium.* <!--more-->

The Imperium is a near-future totalitarian state in which a Triumvirate wields
absolute power. The Senate (ostensibly freely elected from the Cantons, but in
practice a rubber stamp for the Citizens of the capital) selects the
Triumvirate. Each member of the Triumvirate serves a six-year term. There is
no limit to the number of terms a triumvir may serve. The rulers’
understanding of life in Ancient Imperial Rome dictates almost every aspect of
life in the Imperium. Including, of course, the Games.

## History

The Imperium came into being 40 years ago, in the wake of a devastating civil
war which toppled the existing democracy. The victors in that conflict
established the current political structure and redrew all the boundaries in
the country, centralizing power. They suppressed the opposition and
consolidated their control.

## Organization

The Eternal City, founded at the end of the war, is the Capital of the
Imperium. Twelve Cantons surround it, all subservient to it. Each Canton is
responsible for a particular type of production and is under the protection of
one of the Roman Gods. Canton 5, for example, is the domain of Vulcan,
responsible for manufacturing and heavy industry while Canton 10 is under the
aegis of Ceres and responsible for agriculture. The Cantons are not equal in
size or prestige. Neptune’s Canton, Canton 3, has low status and, being
located along a long stretch of coastline, is devoted to fishing, while Canton
1 is small and urban. Under the care of Jupiter, it trains teachers,
politicians, and administrators.

Travel between Cantons requires a permit from the Eternal City, and these are
difficult to come by. A native of a Canton cannot just get themselves
transferred elsewhere though, rarely, an extraordinary individual receives an
invitation to move to a Canton better suited to their talents, or even to the
Eternal City to serve the government directly. Most Cantons contain enclaves
inhabited by members of a ‘foreign’ Canton. Residents of Canton 4, for
example, manage and work a lucrative mine in Canton 10. Educational trips,
vacations for the privileged in the designated tourist districts of Venus in
Canton 12, and illicit penetration of the less well guarded borders allow for
some limited intermingling of Canton dwellers. That said, the majority of
people in the Imperium will never leave their home Canton.

## The Eternal City

The Eternal City exists as an island enclave within Canton 1, but its status
as a governmental district is enshrined in the constitution and sets it apart
from the rest of the Imperium. Technically, the term “citizen” refers to any
resident of the Imperium, no matter where they reside. But in practice, it
virtually always refers to those living in the Eternal City. Some even refuse
to use the term for those invited from elsewhere. Only families have lived in
the Eternal City since its establishment have an inherited right to reside in
there; all other residents have been invited, and either granted a temporary
visa or, in rare instances, rewarded with permanent residency. All victors in
the Triumphal Games receive permanent residency as part of their spoils.

The capital of the Imperium has a reputation as a place of civility and
refinement. The architecture is modern, tasteful, and elegant. Ostentatious
displays of wealth are for the crass mercantile arrays of Canton 7 or the
lurid nightlife of the entertainment districts of Canton 12. Citizens signal
their wealth and status through the use of rich natural materials and elegant
design; dresses in sumptuous silk and cashmere, furniture of mahogany and
sandalwood, tables set with crystal and bone china.

In contrast, fashion is the sphere where many Citizens choose to express
themselves. Especially among the media elites and others prone to
self-promotion, clothes are a way to stand out, attract attention, and make a
statement. Anachronism is all the rage, with period dresses in modern prints,
haute couture paired with powdered wigs, and classic three-piece suits
accented with neon fingernails. It’s not universal — in general, the more
powerful you are, the less need you feel to advertise it — but virtually all
choose to dress well.

## The Cantons

### Canton 1: Jupiter -- The Fortunate Canton

Jupiter’s Canton is small in area but great in influence. Its primary function
is administration, and indirectly overseeing the other Cantons. Paperwork and
records from all over the Imperium go to Jupiter for processing. Jupiter
imports nearly all its food, energy, and minerals from the other Cantons, but
it exports something more valuable: It exports expertise. Some natives of the
Canton end up taking up teaching or judicial posts in other Cantons. There is
no expectation that they will undertake a long tours of duty outside Canton 1,
but some form relationships and gain permission to raise families in less
fortunate Cantons, much to the horror of their friends and family back home.

The Eternal City is an enclave fully encircled by The Fortunate Canton. From
the penthouses of Jupiter, on a clear day, there is a view of the rooftop
gardens of the Eternal City. From most apartments, however, the view is of the
windows, walls, and balconies of the apartment block next door. The apartments
themselves are large and pleasantly appointed. Many from this Canton put value
on time and resources spent to make their living spaces more beautiful though
even here few can reach the luxury of the Eternal City itself. Most residents
aspire to make the leap to the Capital, but those who make it are few and far
between.

Canton 1 is known for its Academy where pupils train for the Triumphal Games.
Each year they undertake competitive examinations, including both theoretical
and practical elements. They enroll in pairs, and the top two become the
Triumphs for Jupiter. Their families regard this as a consummate honor. The
method has met with some success, as, over the years Jupiter has produced more
than its fair share of victors.

In the Imperium, natives of Canton 1 have a reputation for being somewhat
snobbish and needing to ‘get over themselves’. Conversely, there is a belief
some of them are real party animals.

### Canton 2: Juno -- The Artisans’ Canton

Juno’s Canton occupies a large, sprawling urban area and produces textiles.
In a way this is a Canton of contrasts -- the industrial areas that produce
synthetics are a far cry from the quarter where mulberry trees grow for silk
production. Ceres’ Canton provides a lot of animal fiber and by-products come
in from Vulcan for use in the production of synthetic fabrics. Nearly all
natives of the Artisans’ Canton work in the textile industry, processing the
raw materials or weaving them into fabrics that are either made up in the
Canton or exported in bulk to other parts of the Imperium.

Most buildings are low and sprawling, with factories and workshops where fiber
is spun, woven, and sewn. Most residents prefer to live away from the
workshops and factories arrange transport from hubs around most housing areas
so that people can get to and from work. Textile production is labor
intensive, and the factories are noisy, but though hard and often stressful,
the work is not dangerous, and most denizens live comfortably, though few are
rich by Imperium standards.

Local decisions on matters the Eternal City does not dictate, are in the hands
of a council of Elders. Many of the Elders have grandchildren in the Canton,
which, they say, makes them think a lot about the future. There is, however,
no age restriction to becoming a member of the council. The council is not
precisely elected, but members are put forward by each housing area. The
council commands great respect in the Canton and it is they who select the
Triumphs each year, in consultation with the areas they represent. In the
Imperium the Weavers have a reputation for being calm and industrious. Some
see this as a weakness, others see it as a strength. They are also known for
their tendency to become jealous.

### Canton 3: Neptune -- The Mariners Canton

Neptune’s Canton stretches for many miles along the coast. It’s a fairly
narrow strip -- possible for a fit person to walk from East to West in a
morning. The landscape is rural and the people who live here live hand to
mouth, scraping a living from day to day. Nearly all are reliant upon the sea
for sustenance. There is a great demand for sea food in the Eternal City (not
to mention the richer Cantons) so only the damaged and rougher fish are
available to feed the masses. Imports from other Cantons are beyond many
people’s means though some hunt meagre game along the sand dunes. It’s a hard
life in Canton 3 and some starve to death, though many more drown at sea.
Fishing is a dangerous business.

Although the Canton is relatively large it is under-resourced and cannot
support a large population. The people live in clusters of cottages. Most
families own at least one boat and communities will rally round to ensure that
these are in good repair. While there is some resentment of the ‘easy life’
lived by those in more prosperous Cantons, the Fishers are fiercely
independent and do not take well to attempts to regulate or order their lives.
Each family decides on its own direction in life.

The Mariners choose their Triumphs by lot. The running of the lottery rotates
between the established families of the Canton, and any dispute about this
usually results in a collective decision to invite an administrator from
Jupiter’s Canton to adjudicate.

In the Imperium as a whole thinks of the Fishers as rough folk without any
manners. Some think they are stupid; others credit them with an excess of low
cunning. All agree that they are fiercely independent.

### Canton 4: Pluto -- The Diggers’ Canton

The diggers Canton is relatively large and a great deal of it is rural.
Clusters of housing rise up around any mineral deposits the Fortunate believe
are worth exploiting. Most of the Diggers work as miners though, as in all the
Cantons, some denizens make a humble living by providing needful services,
like selling food and repairing tools. Thing is, as any Digger will tell you,
you can’t eat coal or silver, not even gold. Though to be honest, there are no
gold mines within Pluto’s Canton. There are some which function as Pluto’s
enclaves in other Cantons. No one (apart from the Fortunate in charge of
administering such things and whoever it is in the Eternal City who controls
them) is sure just how many gold mines exist in the Imperium though most
concede there must be at least one.

There is a lot of empty space in this Canton where there are no mines. These
spaces are frequently contaminated with slag heaps and industrial waste and,
in theory, these areas are inaccessible. In practice many risk the hazards of
these uninhabited areas in the hope of bagging some game or uncontaminated
berries or roots to supplement their meagre diet. Hunters and gatherers of
good repute can sell their hauls to trusted customers. This, however, is
against the rules and a portion of hunters end up in jail.

There are lots of things that can land you in jail in the Diggers Canton.
Hunting, trying to form a Union, pointing out the holes in safety procedures
within the mines, back talking a supervisor, criticizing the triumvirate. The
list is almost endless.  Over time, Pluto’s expertise with incarceration led
to the construction of a number of prisons for the whole of the Imperium in
their abandoned mines, which gives the Administrators a large pool to draw on
when selecting convicted prisoners to represent the Canton as Triumphs. Any
who survive will have their sentence commuted. The Administrators have to walk
a careful line between picking those convicted of serious crimes who are well
motivated but less likely to be popular with the rest of the Diggers and petty
criminals who may be well loved by their fellow Diggers.

In the Imperium the Diggers have a reputation for being hardy souls,
hardworking and rarely complaining though quick to anger if they are subjected
to any form of injustice. Some regard the Canton as a hotbed of rebels, though
their harsh existence tends to crush any serious uprising.

### Canton 5: Vulcan -- The Canton of the Hammer

Canton 5 is urban. It would, according to the Triumvirate, be a waste of
valuable space to let them sprawl any further than necessary. The vast
majority of the Smiths work in the factories which produce almost all the
manufactured goods used throughout the imperium: Trains, furniture, pre-packed
meals, and televisions. There are exceptions, of course, the Weavers in Canton
2 make fabric and the expertise to make very delicate components are exists
only in Canton 6. Assembly lines are the order of the day in the Hammer
Canton. Each worker has a quota they must achieve, a part they need to play in
the overall process.

Achieving one’s quota is no easy matter and the Smiths tend to spend their
leisure time resting and recovering from their daily toils. Few have time for
extra-curricular activities though some procure left over materials from their
workstations and use them at home to create models of daily life and works of
art. Needless to say, the Administrators do not approve of this activity.
Those who achieve or even exceed their quotas and have the right attitude are
promoted to the position of foreman, from whence it is possible to rise to
supervisor. Some exceptionally talented supervisors, those who produce high
output from their workers, can even be re-located to Canton 1 where their
leadership qualities are encouraged and enhanced.

The supervisors, in consultation with the Administrators for the Canton,
select their Triumphs from among those who repeatedly fall behind on their
quotas. Complaints that this often falls on the blameless, those who were sick
or trapped waiting for supplies, are frequent.

The stereotypical Smith has a reputation for being unimaginative, for
following a routine and, sadly, for being lazy. It is widely believed that
many of them are talented with their hands.

### Canton 6: Minerva -- The Canton of Invention

Canton 6 is a small, urban Canton dedicated to research of all kinds. Needless
to say, the Inventors value intelligence and, more importantly, the ability to
think both logically and outside the box over all other qualities. That said,
a community that concentrates entirely on brain work cannot sustain itself, so
a moderate number of thinkers, inventers and researchers are supported by
those who carry out the practical and physical work that enables them to
survive.

The Inventors tend to be somewhat inward looking as they are privy to all
kinds of data that would make trouble for the Triumvirate were it to be more
widely released, though many residents would argue that the ‘masses’ would
fail to understand the significance of the raw data. Only the Administrators
and most trusted of the Wrights have access to the final and near-final
results of the research upon which they all work so diligently. As well as
research, the Canton is responsible for the production of advanced and
delicate components unsuited to the cruder methods of the Hammers.

Each Wright works closely with their team and everyone from analysts, through
data input clerks, to cleaners and porters has respect as their tasks known to
be equally essential for the survival of the community. Housing is functional
and comfortable. The Wrights like their community spaces and often several
family units will share cooking facilities, taking it in turns to prepare a
meal for the entire team.

The Canton chooses its Triumphs through discussion and community consensus.
The criteria they use vary from year to year. Sometimes they use the games to
get rid of undesirables, sometimes they put in those they believe will enhance
the Canton’s reputation.

The Inventors have a reputation for being clever and inventive, though
physically not especially hardy. Many believe that they have their “heads in
the clouds” caring more about theory than they do about practical matters.
Even so, there are few who believe they are willingly sharing everything they
have learned.

### Canton 7: Mercury -- The Messenger Canton

This is a wealthy, urban Canton that resembles an extended commercial
district. People move busily from place to place and it’s clear, even from a
cursory glance, that few here are short of the means to keep themselves and
their families in comfort. They live in pleasant villas, often with small
gardens. Even the less wealthy denizens -- those who cook and wash and clean
for the wealthier Silvers -- live in decent quarters and do not lack for food
or drink.

You might be wondering how goods from one Canton get to another, or even from
the Canton to the Eternal City. There is, of course, a transport network,
mainly trains, and one of the guilds from Mercury’s Canton operates these.
They work on the logistics of getting goods from Canton to Canton in a timely
manner and also issue the permits to those from the Cantons who need to travel
from one place to another. Mercury also rules over trade and, whilst the
profits go almost exclusively to the Eternal City the Messengers are
responsible for working out official pricing for commodities that pass from
Canton to Canton. They also work on fixing levels of taxation and other
financially orientated administrative tasks. The Messengers work very closely
with Canton 1 and, through Canton 1, the Eternal City.

The Messengers organize themselves into Guilds, each Guild having a specialty
in the fiscal or transport field. Examples are the Transport Guild, the
Bankers Guild, the Speculators Guild who bet on the relative success of
various Corporations, and the Money Lenders Guild (this last does not have the
full approval of the Triumvirate but seems impossible to suppress).

Each year, the Guild-Masters meet for a grand dinner in the course of which,
the two worst-performing Guilds are nominated to put forward a Triumph for the
games.

The Messengers have a reputation for being canny with money and resources.
Most believe that they can organize pretty well anything for you… for a price.
Many in the Imperium consider them corrupt and prone to double dealing. Rare
is the Silver who doesn’t know how to drive a hard bargain.

### Canton 8: Mars -- The Squaddie Canton

Canton 8 provides the soldiers for the Imperium’s army. The Squaddies provide
bodyguards, police, and enforcers to the other Cantons and to be deployed
where needed. The vast majority, however, are part of the Imperium’s standing
army. Without external threats, no one outside the Eternal City is very sure
why the Standing Army is needed, but the Eternal City insists that it is, and
the Triumvirate keep Mars’ Canton well supplied with life’s necessities though
few luxuries make it to this rural area.

Squaddies of fighting age live in sprawling military camps and conduct
exercises all over the stunningly beautiful countryside. Merit alone
determines who rises through the ranks and the top brass frequently receive
invitations to the Eternal City to advise the Triumvirate on matters of war.
Many Gamekeepers employ high ranking Squaddies to advise them on challenges
with which to face the Triumphs.

Life in Mars’ Canton is highly regulated which most residents consider a fair
enough price to pay for having their needs met by the Imperium. Many soldiers
like to spend their free time hiking or hunting and fishing in the beautiful
countryside. Any game or fish resulting from this activity is taken back to
camp and shared with friends and family in the communal mess halls.

Every year, the Generals will select promising soldiers to volunteer as
Triumphs. In exchange, as well as honor and glory, the Canton undertakes to
make generous payouts to the Triumphs’ families, relieving them from the need
to work for a living and allowing them to relax in rural luxury for the rest
of their lives. Due to the rigorous military training, Canton 8 has produced
more than its fair share of Triumphs.

In the Imperium, many are under the impression that the Squaddies are military
machines, ruthlessly efficient and fighting fit at all times. Many also
believe that they lack creativity and, if not given orders, have serious
problems thinking things through.

### Canton 9: Apollo -- The Shining Canton

Apollo’s Canton produces energy. Distribution of power to the various Cantons
is a collaborative effort between Mercury and Apollo. Well, theoretically
collaborative, truth to tell, it’s a difficult relationship as the Shining
Canton is not as wealthy as the Messengers. Canton 9 is a sprawling, mainly
rural area, though the coal-fired plants that run down the West border ruin
the bucolic feel. Coal is in short supply in the Imperium, so nuclear
reactors, solar energy and wind farms generate most of the energy.

This Canton is an area full of contrasts with people undertaking quite
different tasks and running  different risks. This has given rise to a number
of separate communities with different lifestyles. To the outsider, Apollo’s
Canton does not always seem like a single entity.

The Shining ones would disagree with this assessment. Most Brights can play a
musical instrument, or paint, or compose poetry. They come together at
seasonal festivals to celebrate these and, whilst they cannot compete with the
Cabaret of Venus for entertainment value, some documentary makers have filmed
the Shiners’ crude attempts to entertain each other. There are those in the
Eternal City who value the ‘highbrow’ output of Canton 9 very highly, and some
have received invitations to the Eternal City as personal musicians or poets
to the Triumvirate.

For the most part, this is a relatively prosperous Canton, some overseers and
popular artists have wealth comparable to a native of Canton 1 or 6. Some of
those who work in the plants find it difficult to make ends meet. Most,
however, by virtue of hard work, are able to make a decent enough life for
themselves and their families.

The Oracle, a spiritual leader chosen every decade by lot, chooses the
Triumphs each year. The Oracle watches for signs and portents and announces
the names at the seasonal festival preceding the games. The Oracle is supposed
to be incorruptible. Rumor has it that this is not always the case.

### Canton 10: Ceres -- The Peasant Canton

Ceres’ Canton is rural. The inhabitants make their livings growing food for
the agricultural corporations. It’s backbreaking work and notoriously poorly
paid. Every worker may retain a portion of what they produce, and the internal
economy of Ceres’ Canton runs mostly on barter with coin paid in wages used
exclusively for what cannot be bred, grown, or gathered from the wild. Not
that much wild remains between the intensive farming enterprises.

Life for the peasants is ruled by the seasons; there is a time to sow and a
time to reap. Factors beyond human control can wreck crops and mysterious
diseases can decimate herds. Every time this happens, families find themselves
without the means to sustain themselves and their paymasters in the Eternal
City are disinclined to charity. Maybe it is this uncertainty, maybe it is
their closeness to nature, but the peasants are more superstitious than most
inhabitants of the Imperium, setting great store by lucky charms and
mysterious seasonal rituals at which outsiders are unwelcome. Spies from
Cantons 1, 7 and 8 have made a number of attempts to attend these events
undercover. None have ever been able to make a reliable report back to base.

The peasants have a strong tradition of volunteering for the games. The Victor
(there has only ever been one) reads out the names of the fallen at every
harvest festival and the community, as a whole, looks out for the bereaved
families.

In the Imperium, Croppers are regarded as hale and hearty, simple, honest, and
down to earth. Many believe them to be naïve and easily fooled and over-awed
by the greater sophistication of city folk. It’s best never to rely on these
stereotypes -- conmen have lost out badly that way.

### Canton 11: Diana -- The Dryad Canton

Diana’s Canton is full of forests. The Fletchers provide the Imperium with
lumber and, to a lesser extent, game, furs, and feathers. There are strict
lumber quotas set by the corporations in the Eternal City but game and furs,
when available, can be sold to the highest bidder. Few people in Canton 11 can
be described as wealthy. Some skilled hunters make a decent living; the rest
struggle to feed their families. It can be difficult to decide whether to eat
the rabbit you’ve just trapped for dinner or to sell it to a Messenger. The
decision will depend on how hungry you are and how far you are from the
Merchant’s enclave. The sad fact is that those who live furthest from the
enclaves of richer Cantons tend to grind out a meagre existence.

Away from the foreign Canton enclaves there are few towns, often nothing you
would even describe as a village. Some Dryads live in wooden huts but, when a
family is finding it difficult to supply their quota of lumber, they dismantle
their huts and live under canvas or the open sky.

The forest itself is carefully managed and part of the reason for the lack of
permanent settlements is that, as each area is cleared of trees, it is
replanted, and the Dryads move into the denser forest in order to harvest it.
Diana’s Canton covers a large area.

Selection for the games is by means of a contest. Eligible participants get
head start before skilled trackers go after them. The first two caught become
Triumphs. The half dozen who stay free the longest get to be the trackers the
following year.

Amongst inhabitants of the Imperium, the Dryads are believed to be resourceful
and imaginative, able to come up with novel solutions to more or less any
problem. They can also be rather over-imaginative, taking flights of fancy and
blowing matters up out of all proportion.

### Canton 12: Venus -- The Cabaret

Venus’ Canton is small and urban. The Pipers make a decent living providing
entertainment for the Imperium. Major stars regularly gain permission to
reside in the Eternal City, where they remain until their popularity fails.
Although this is not one of the most populous Cantons, it’s obvious that not
every resident of the Cabaret can be a star. Most work in support positions,
as cameramen, lighting technicians, members of the backing orchestra, makers
of costumes and scenery.

Much of the land area of the Canton consists of resorts and entertainment
districts, available to the richest members of the Imperium on vacation, with
the workers who make it possible relegated to crowded lodging behind the
scenes. Sometimes residents of other Cantons are rewarded with a vacation in
the Canton of Venus and, whilst not on a par with an invitation to reside
within the Eternal City, it is a privilege worth working for. The members of
the Cabaret dress to impress, even when they aren’t at work. To an outsider,
the Cabaret can seem somewhat surreal, and Canton 12 is exceptional in that
the residents mingle with those from all the other Cantons — at least, the
wealthy and the privileged.

Most families live in neatly appointed apartments—appearance is important
—decorated with posters of the latest production and furnished with oversized
television screens. Many take their Art very seriously and practice diligently
as they understand this to be the best route to success, and rare is the
bartender or boom operator who doesn’t have a scheme to make it big.

A selection committee nominates Triumph candidates. The nominees take part in
a talent contest. The committee makes recommendations based on their
performance, but the Cabaret as a whole takes the final decision. Each
resident has one vote, cast in secret. This can make the process feel like a
kind of debauched election, with the candidates doing their best not to win.

The Cabaret are greatly admired throughout the Imperium, at least as long as
their popularity lasts, after that they are swiftly forgotten. They are
considered to be extraordinarily talented, each in their own field but vain,
self-obsessed and with a tendency to fixate on trivia.
