---
title: Sign Up
date: 2019-08-22T08:40:11+02:00
draft: false
navSection: practical
weight: 2
---

{{<signupbutton>}}

Sign up for Triumph, running Nov 19th-22nd, 2020 will open on Monday, Oct
14th, 2019 at noon CEST and remain open for one week, until Monday, Oct 21st,
at noon CEST. <!--more--> It doesn’t matter when you sign up during that
period; if there are more signups than spots, there will be a random lottery
to determine who gets a spot. By signing up, you are agreeing to purchase a
ticket, if one is available for you.

The full cost of a ticket is 470€. You can either pay the full amount by Nov
1st, or pay in installments. There is a 25€ administration fee for paying in
installments. The first payment of 100€ is due by Nov 1st, with a second
payment of 150€ due on Feb 1st and the remainder of 245€ due by Jun 1st.
Payment will be handled by a money transfer to our banking account. We will
provide our IBAN number. If this represents an issue for you, you may contact
us to see if we can arrange an alternative method.

There is a space for a “Group Name”. If you wish to attend only if someone
else gets a ticket as well, you can fill this in. In the event of a lottery,
everyone sharing the same “Group Name” will be selected together. This option
is only available to you if none of you are trying for a Sponsored Ticket.

There is also a spot on the signup for players that you would like to avoid,
but whom you do not feel represent a safety concern. This is a place for you
to indicate players with whom you do not wish to play closely, for whatever
reason. At your request, we can ensure that you do not share a room or have
close relations with that person’s character and that, if possible, you will
be on different runs.

## Elite Tickets

You can, when you sign up, volunteer to pay an additional 50€ in order to
sponsor someone who is otherwise unable to pay full price. This amount will be
added to your first payment, and will enable us to defray the cost for another
attendee. For every three Elite Tickets sold, we will be able to offer an
additional Sponsored ticket.

## Sponsored Tickets

Sponsored tickets are designed so people who would not otherwise be able to
afford to attend can do so. We have two types of sponsored tickets: local and
non-local. Local tickets are reserved for Croatian residents, while non-local
tickets are for everyone else. The cost of a sponsored ticket is 270€. As with
the regular tickets, you can either pay the full amount immediately by Nov
1st, or pay in installments with a 25€ administrative fee. The first payment
of 50€ is due by Nov 1st, with a second payment of 75€ due on Feb 1st and the
remainder of 170€ due by Jun 1st.

We will start with a pool of 4 sponsored tickets, divided equally between
local and international tickets. As people buy elite tickets, this pool will
expand to a maximum of 10 sponsored tickets. Signing up for a sponsored ticket
will not affect your casting or responsibilities in game.

When you sign up, you will have to choose whether you are trying for a regular
ticket, a local sponsored ticket, or a non-local sponsored ticket. This is
largely an honor system; sponsored tickets are intended to give those larpers
who could not otherwise attend the event a chance to attend. If you can afford
to pay full price, please sign up for a regular ticket. If it would be a
financial hardship to do so—for whatever reason—you are welcome to try for a
sponsored ticket instead.

## Waitlist Policy

In the event that we have more signups than space available, we will have a
waitlist. There is an option to be added to the waitlist when you sign up. If
you accept a spot from the waitlist, you will be expected to remit payment
within a week.

## Safety Concerns

There is a spot on the signup where you can indicate “red flags”—players for
whom you have safety concerns and feel they are unsafe for anyone to play
with, whether due to in-game or out-of-game reasons. You may list any players
you feel represent a safety issue to have in the game, and if necessary a
member of our staff will contact you.

All information provided on the signup document will be kept in confidence,
and will not be shared with anyone not on the organizing team. There will also
be other opportunities to indicate safety concerns with players in the larp.
And if you are not signing up, you can always email
[info@triumphlarp.org](mailto:info@triumphlarp.org) with any safety concerns,
and we will look into them.

## Additional Runs

This game will run Nov 19th-22nd, 2020. If there is sufficient interest, we
will have a second run on Nov 26th-29th, 2020. You may sign up for a single
run (with the proviso that we are not guaranteeing that the second run will
happen), or indicate that you are able to play either run. If you sign up for
both runs, you may be able to buy tickets for both runs if these are
available.

Again, we are strongly preferencing a full run from Nov 19th-22nd.

## Lottery Procedure

If we need to do a lottery, we will randomize all those who signed up for
regular or elite tickets, with all those who signed up as a group getting a
single slot but getting picked together. We will then randomly choose entries
one at a time from the regular and elite pool, with every three elite tickets
being chosen adding an additional sponsored ticket spot. Once we have selected
all the regular tickets, we will then fill the sponsored ticket spots.

We will indicate whether you have gotten a space by Oct 25th.

## Refund Policy

We cannot promise refunds, and spots in Triumph are non-transferable. If you
are unable to attend, let us know as soon as possible. If there is a waitlist,
we will offer the spot to anyone currently waiting. If we do not have anyone
lined up immediately, we will continue to look for someone to fill the spot.
If we do, and we have a full run, we will be able to offer a complete
reimbursement of what you have paid so far, minus a 25€ administrative charge.
In the event we do not have a full run, we will be able to offer a partial
refund of half the amount you have paid until Jun 1, and 25% of the amount you
have paid thereafter.


