---
title: Team
date: 2019-09-08
draft: false
navSection: about
---

*Triumph* is being organized by a core team of five designers. You can meet
them here. <!--more-->

## Chris Bergstresser

Chris has been playing and organizing larps for over 25 years, with a focus on
the international larp scene since 2015. As the Creative Director, he's
primarily responsible for the overall design of *Triumph*, as well as managing
the technical side of the operation. He's excited about the world the
team has designed, and is looking forward to having players bring it to life.

## Hilary Sklar

Hilary is half of Omentide Games, who have run a number of successful short
larps in Ireland and the UK. She has a history of 20 years involvement in a
widely distributed larp organization (previously known as the Camarilla) both
as a storyteller and a co-ordinator. She is a free lance writer working for
Onyx Path Publishing, Modiphius Entertainment, Helmgast and others,
specializing in settings, scenarios and characters.

## Ashley Perryman

Ashley is the other half of Omentide Games, who have created run a number of
successful larps in Ireland and elsewhere. He is an award winning larp
designer who has been involved in larp design and creation for a number of
different organizations over a period of more than 25 years. Although he
specialize in character and setting design, he also has extensive knowledge
of safety mechanisms and structures, and in their practical application.

## Alexandra Beck

Known to most people by her nickname "Lu", Alexandra has been organising small
larps for a little over ten years in her local German scene, and joined the
international scene (both as a player and organiser) about three years ago.
She is what you would generally call a people person--and as such, she'll be
handling the communication and social media content of *Triumph*. Apart from
that, she'll be part of the safety team. So if you have any questions and
concerns regarding the game, she’s the one to talk to first.

## Marko Zadro

Born and raised in Croatia, Marco is a local larper and very active one on
both the Croatian and international larping scene. He is a part of the Cygnus
Association collective, an NGO which, among many other things, makes larp
projects and runs them in the region. Although he’s been larping for 8 years,
he has 5 years of experience in larp design. As a local, Marko will be
handling most day-to-day operations on the game, covering necessary logistics
and making sure the game runs smooth in coordination with the venue staff.
